[docs] Reviews Rating (#16520)
MystenLabs/sui: docs/content/guides/developer/app-examples/reviews-rating.mdx

---
title: Reviews Rating
---

> The following documentation goes through an example implementation of a review rating platform for the food service industry on Sui. By leveraging blockchain to allow reviewers to own and monetize their feedback, the on-chain platform ensures transparency and temper-proof ratings.

Reviewer: This could probably be more detailed. Note to self because I can add.

### Reviewers

Reviewers are consumers of services that use the review system. Reviewers provide feedback in the form of comments that detail specific aspects of the service as well as a star rating to inform others. The reviews are rated, with the most effective reviews getting the highest rating. Service owners award the 10 highest rated reviews for their service. 

### Review readers

Review readers access reviews to make informed decisions on selecting services. Readers rate reviews by casting up or down votes. The review readers' ratings are factored into the algorithm that rates the reviews, with the authors of the highest-rated reviews getting awarded. 

### Moderator

The moderator monitors content of the reviews and can delete any reviews that contain inappropriate content.

## How reviews are rated

The reviews are rated (scored) on-chain using following criteria
- Intrinsic score (IS)
  - Length of content
- Extrinsic score (ES)
  - Number of votes received
- Verification multiplier (VM)
  - Reviews with PoE get a multiplier to improve rating

```
Total Score = (IS + ES) * VM
```

> ## Backend

Reviewer: @amnn can provide some guidance, I'm sure, but we could use some discussion on any common coding patterns used in these modules. Include some reasoning behind why you're choosing to use those patterns would help, too.

Author: For this PoC, there is no need to run a backend server. Every operation that is typically done on the backend (ie. sorting reviews) is done on-chain: scoring a review and sorting reviews such that a high-rated review comes first. The reviews are always sorted on-chain and the frontend can just display reviews.

Reviewer: Well, we've been calling these contracts the "backend" for these examples, even though Sui is technically the service. Maybe should rename.

Author: I've renamed the header "Backend" to "Smart contracts". I see that Blackjack poc also has the header "Smart contracts" [https://docs.sui.io/guides/developer/app-examples/blackjack#smart-contracts]

  reward_pool: Balance<SUI>,
  reward: u64,
  reviews: MultiMap<ID>,
  moderators: VecSet<address>,
  overall_rate: u64,
  name: String
}
```

All the submitted reviews are stored in `reviews` field, which has `MultiMap<ID>` type. The [multimap module](#multimap) defines the type. 

The `reward_pool` and `reward` fields store the available reward information.  

### multimap.move {#multimap}

`MultiMap` is an implementation of the `multimap` data structure (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multimap), which keeps all the reviews sorted. Using `MultiMap`, all the reviews are ordered by rating, with the highest rated reviews coming first.

```move
struct MultiMap<K: copy> has copy, drop, store {
  contents: vector<Entry<K>>,
}
```

### review.move

This module defines the `Review` struct.

```move
struct Review has key, store {
  id: UID,
  owner: address,
  service_id: ID,
  content: String,
  // is
  len: u64,
  // es
  votes: u64,
  time_issued: u64,
  // vm: proof of experience
  has_poe: bool,
  // total score
  ts: u64,
  overall_rate: u8,
}
```

In addition to the content of a review, all the elements that are required to compute total score are stored in a `Review` object.

> ## Frontend

Reviewer: For frontend, we could use a general overview of the app structure. We don't need to doc every component, of course, but should do the main ones. Should also touch components where we use an @mysten library.

Author: I added an overview of the app structure and also listed descriptions of key components

Reviewer 2: We'll need more than this -- a guide should be something that people can follow step-by-step to achieve the same result while understanding each step that they are taking -- it's not enough for people to be able to copy-paste the code file-by-file.

---
title: Reviews Rating
---

> The following documentation goes through an example implementation of a review rating platform for the food service industry on Sui. By leveraging blockchain to allow reviewers to own and monetize their feedback, the on-chain platform ensures transparency and temper-proof ratings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following documentation goes through an example implementation of a review rating platform for the food service industry on Sui. By leveraging blockchain to allow reviewers to own and monetize their feedback, the on-chain platform ensures transparency and tamper-proof ratings.
```

Small typo fix in suggestion, but adding to the comment about detail here, I'm not sure I follow this last sentence: Why does allowing reviewers to own and monetize their feedback ensure transparency and tamper-proof ratings? To me these read like unrelated benefits (using a blockchain for storing reviews and ratings allows reviewers to own and monetize their feedback *and* ensures transparency and tamper-proof ratings.

Reviewer 2: Also, can you add some details here on what concepts from Sui someone will encounter or learn about over the course of this guide?

```

### Service owners

Service owners are entities like restaurants that list their services on the platform. Service owners allocate a specific amount of SUI as a reward pool. Assets from the pool are used to provide rewards for honest reviews. A Proof of Experience (PoE) NFT confirms the reviewer used the service, which they burn to provide a verified review. Service owners can provide their customers with unique identifiers, perhaps using QR codes, to identify individual reviewers.

### Reviewers

Reviewers are consumers of services that use the review system. Reviewers provide feedback in the form of comments that detail specific aspects of the service as well as a star rating to inform others. The reviews are rated, with the most effective reviews getting the highest rating. Service owners award the 10 highest rated reviews for their service. 

### Review readers

Review readers access reviews to make informed decisions on selecting services. Readers rate reviews by casting up or down votes. The review readers' ratings are factored into the algorithm that rates the reviews, with the authors of the highest-rated reviews getting awarded. 

### Moderator

> The moderator monitors content of the reviews and can delete any reviews that contain inappropriate content.

Reviewer 2: Couple of questions I have reading through this section:

- How are we defining an "honest" review?
- What is stopping a Service owner, masquerading as a Review reader in order to downvote unfavourable reviews (to avoid having to reward them?), or as a Moderator to remove them entirely, or as a Reviewer to create artificially inflated reviews?

Reviewer 2: Further questions I had after reading the guide:

- How do you identify Moderators and Service Owners in the smart contract (because they can perform privileged operations).
- How do pay-outs work? E.g. is it on a regular or rolling basis, are the rewards staked by the service owner up-front or after the fact, etc?

Author: * I've removed "honest"
* It is true that a service owner may impersonate a reviewer, or make one self a moderator and delete all unfavorable reviews. But since all activities are on-chain I was hoping that any such unsavory actions can be uncovered later which would bring dire consequences for service owners (i.ei. banned from listing their service). 
* Another aspect I want to highlight is for these online platforms we are actually very reliant on moderator to keep things in order: delete obscene material, kick out bad actors, etc. Think about how invaluable moderators are for Mastodon or Discord. As such, I expect that moderators are ones who should be safekeepers until we can somehow integrate ChatGpt to rate reviews.
* Added a section to describe AdminCaps given to service owners and moderators
* Added a line to describe that pay-outs is all up to service owners: they can choose to pay regular or rolling basis

```move
struct Dashboard has key, store {
  id: UID,
  set: VecSet<ID>,
  service_type: String
}
```

The services are grouped by attributes, which can be cuisine type, geographical location, operating hours, google maps ID, and so on. To keep it basic, the example stores only `service_type` (for example, fast food, Chinese, Italian).

### service.move

This module defines the `Services` struct, which service owners manage.

```move
struct Service has key, store {
  id: UID,
  reward_pool: Balance<SUI>,
  reward: u64,
  reviews: MultiMap<ID>,
  moderators: VecSet<address>,
  overall_rate: u64,
  name: String
}
```

All the submitted reviews are stored in `reviews` field, which has `MultiMap<ID>` type. The [multimap module](#multimap) defines the type. 

The `reward_pool` and `reward` fields store the available reward information.  

### multimap.move {#multimap}

`MultiMap` is an implementation of the `multimap` data structure (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multimap), which keeps all the reviews sorted. Using `MultiMap`, all the reviews are ordered by rating, with the highest rated reviews coming first.

```move

> struct MultiMap<K: copy> has copy, drop, store {

Reviewer 2: There is no effective limit on the number of reviews that a service can have, which means that this data structure can grow without bound, and hit the object size limit. For this kind of application (unbounded data that application users can add), it is better to use dynamic fields, for that reason.

Reviewer 2: Also, we're missing details on the `Entry` type here.

Author: * For this PoC, there is a limit on the number of reviews that a service can have. It's 1000 and that is why I've used vector to store them. I imposed the limit because the reviews are sorted on-chain using binary search. I've added a section about the decision to have max of 1000 reviews.
* I've added `Entry` type

Reviewer 2: The decision to limit the number of reviews is fine for a proof-of-concept, but we cannot do that for a guide: We would be explicitly demonstrating a pattern we would not want people to follow in their production code.

For guides, I think it's fine to cut corners in case of code/patterns that are not specific to Sui, for example in some guides we use sqlite as the database for the indexer, which may not be the right choice for many production applications, but this is OK, because database administration is not the main topic of the guide, but correct use of Move and Sui primitives is.

Author: I've modified the contract so that it can store unlimited number of reviews as suggested

  contents: vector<Entry<K>>,
}
```

### review.move

This module defines the `Review` struct.

```move
struct Review has key, store {
  id: UID,
  owner: address,
  service_id: ID,
  content: String,
  // is
  len: u64,
  // es
  votes: u64,
  time_issued: u64,
  // vm: proof of experience
  has_poe: bool,
  // total score

>   ts: u64,

Reviewer 2: please use longer names instead of `is`, `es`, `ts` here.

Author: * Used longer names

### Reviewers

Reviewers are consumers of services that use the review system. Reviewers provide feedback in the form of comments that detail specific aspects of the service as well as a star rating to inform others. The reviews are rated, with the most effective reviews getting the highest rating. Service owners award the 10 highest rated reviews for their service. How often the rewards are distributed is up to the service owner's discretion; for example, it can be distributed once a day or once a month.

### Review readers

Review readers access reviews to make informed decisions on selecting services. Readers rate reviews by casting up or down votes. The review readers' ratings are factored into the algorithm that rates the reviews, with the authors of the highest-rated reviews getting awarded. Although it is not implemented as part of this guide, a proportion of the review reward may be awarded to review readers who has participated in rating reviews by casting their votes.

### Moderators

> Moderators monitor content of the reviews and can delete any reviews that contain inappropriate content. Moderators also keep an eye on the number of reviews registered for a service to ensure that they do not grow indefinitely.

Reviewer 2: Is the role of moderators to limit the number of reviews still required with the restrictions lifted on how many reviews can be stored?

Author: I agree that moderators no longer need to keep track of number of reviews. I've removed the line.

## How reviews are rated

The reviews are rated (scored) on-chain using following criteria
- Intrinsic score (IS)
  - Length of content
- Extrinsic score (ES)
  - Number of votes received
- Verification multiplier (VM)
  - Reviews with PoE get a multiplier to improve rating

```
Total Score = (IS + ES) * VM
```

## Smart contracts

There are several modules that create the backend logic for the example.

### dashboard.move

The `dashboard.move` module defines the `Dashboard` struct that is used to group services.

```move
struct Dashboard has key, store {
  id: UID,
  service_type: String
}
```

The services are grouped by attributes, which can be cuisine type, geographical location, operating hours, google maps ID, and so on. To keep it basic, the example stores only `service_type` (for example, fast food, Chinese, Italian).

### service.move

This module defines the `Service` struct, which service owners manage.

```move
struct Service has key, store {
  id: UID,
  reward_pool: Balance<SUI>,
  reward: u64,
  top_reviews: MultiMap<ID>,

>   reviews: Table<ID, ID>,

Reviewer 2: The flow of a review is not clear to me, e.g.

- how is a review created and inserted into these structures,
- how is it voted upon,
- how does it transition from the `reviews` structure to the `top_reviews` structure and vice versa,
- how do we guarantee that reviews are visible and can be voted upon by anybody (or to phrase this in a different way, how do we prevent bad actors from hiding undesirable reviews).
- how do we guarantee that a review that gets sufficient votes ends up in `top_reviews`?

Author: - A `review` is a shared object, so anyone can cast a vote on a `review` and recompute `total_score`. 
  - I've added a link to "shared object" Object Ownership documentation and also added more descriptions for casting votes.
- There is a function called `update_top_reviews` that updates `top_reviews` 
  - I've added `update_top_reviews` that inserts a new review into `top_reviews` after `total_score` is updated.

Reviewer 2: IIUC, this means that when you create a review, you create a shared object, and then you put its ID in the `reviews` Table, then to update a review, the client would need to look it up in the `reviews` table (out of interest, what ID is used for the keys in the `reviews` table?), and then issue a separate transaction with the ID of the shared object containing the actual review. If that update means that it should now be in the top reviews, it needs to then remember to call `update_top_reviews` to perform that update on the `Service`.

This is not ideal, because it is non-atomic and allows mistakes, adversarial behaviour (imagine a particular restaurant monitors the sentiment of reviews as they are receiving votes and "forgets" to update the top reviews if the votes are for negative sentiment reviews), or timing issues on the client side to present an inconsistent state on-chain: You could have review objects that don't appear in the `top_reviews` structure that have more reviews that do.

The fix is to represent the `Service` as follows:

```move
struct Service has key, store {
  id: UID,
  reward_pool: Balance<SUI>,
  reward: u64,
  top_reviews: vector<ID>,
  reviews: ObjectTable<ID, Review>,
  overall_rate: u64,
  name: String,
}
```

Reviews are stored in an `ObjectTable`, meaning that they are stored as children of the shared object, but they are still accessible off-chain by their ID (that's the difference between `Table` and `ObjectTable`) and we re-use their ID as the key of the `reviews` table.

Because `top_reviews` now only needs to store ~10 reviews, and modifications to this structure should always happen at the end (the bottom review gets replaced), it can be stored in a simple `vector` (no more need for a custom data structure). This vector is stored in order of reviews, and holds the IDs of the top reviews (whose content and vote count can be looked up from the `reviews` table).

The function for casting a vote will now also check whether the review should be added to `top_reviews`. This guarantees atomicity, and no foul play.

Author: I've removed the custom data structure and used `ObjectTable` to store `reviews`. I also extended the section on casting votes which would always trigger calling `update_top_reviews` to order `top_reviews`.

  moderators: Table<address, address>,
  overall_rate: u64,
  name: String
}
```

All the submitted reviews are stored in `reviews` field, and top rated reviews are stored in `top_reviews` field, which has `MultiMap<ID>` type. The [multimap module](#multimap) defines the type.

> The `reward_pool` and `reward` fields store the available reward information.

Reviewer 2: Can you clarify what `reward` is in this case? Is it the amount of award given out per review?

Author: It is the amount of award given out per review and I've added descriptions fore `reward_pool` and `reward` fields.

```move
struct AdminCap has key, store {
  id: UID,
  service_id: ID
}
struct Moderator has key {
  id: UID,
  service_id: ID,
}
```

> `SERVICE OWNERS` are given `AdminCap`, and `MODERATORS` are given `Moderator` to allow them to perform privileged operations.

Reviewer 2: Let's link to documentation on "capabilities" here and make it clear that this is an example of the capability pattern.

Author: I added a link to "capabilities" documentation as suggested.

### multimap.move {#multimap}

`MultiMap` is an implementation of the `multimap` data structure (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multimap), which keeps all the reviews sorted. Using `MultiMap`, all the reviews are ordered by rating, with the highest rated reviews coming first.

```move
struct MultiMap<K: copy> has copy, drop, store {
  contents: vector<Entry<K>>,
}
struct Entry<K: copy> has copy, drop, store {
  key: K,
  priority: u64,
}
```
The `object_id` of a `review` object is used as a `key` and `total_score` is used as `priority` for a new entry.

Note that `vector` is used to store the contents of the `MultiMap`. This is acceptable in our use case because the rewards are distributed to 10 participants at most.

```move
public fun insert<K: copy>(self: &mut MultiMap<K>, key: K, priority: u64) {
  assert!(!contains(self, &key), EKeyAlreadyExists);
  let len = vector::length(&self.contents);
  if (len == 0) {

>     vector::push_back(&mut self.contents, Entry { key, priority });

Reviewer 2: This special case should be unnecessary, I think (you can insert at `0` in an empty vector).

Author: Yes, it is indeed unnecessary check. I've removed the check.

Furthermore, all submitted reviews are scored and ordered on-chain which is feasible due to the low gas cost of computation on Sui.

## Personas

There are four actors in the typical workflow of the reviews rating example.  

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  Service ->> Dashboard: Add service to dashboard.
  Service ->> User: Send proof of experience.
  User ->> Service: Send review
  Service ->> User: Send reward
  Service ->> Moderator: Add as a service moderator
  Moderator ->> Service: Remove abused review
```

### Service owners

Service owners are entities like restaurants that list their services on the platform. Service owners allocate a specific amount of SUI as a reward pool. Assets from the pool are used to provide rewards for high-rated reviews. A Proof of Experience (PoE) NFT confirms the reviewer used the service, which they burn to provide a verified review. Service owners can provide their customers with unique identifiers, perhaps using QR codes, to identify individual reviewers.

### Reviewers

> Reviewers are consumers of services that use the review system. Reviewers provide feedback in the form of comments that detail specific aspects of the service as well as a star rating to inform others. The reviews are rated, with the most effective reviews getting the highest rating. Service owners award the 10 highest rated reviews for their service. How often the rewards are distributed is up to the service owner; it can be on a regular or rolling basis.

Reviewer 2: It's not clear to me what the distinction is between "on a regular basis" or "on a rolling basis"? They sound like they could mean the same thing, could you add more detail here to distinguish the two modes (or is the intention that the rewards are either distributed as a one-off vs a rolling basis?)

Author: I've made it clear that it is entirely up to service owner that it could daily or month

### Review readers

Review readers access reviews to make informed decisions on selecting services. Readers rate reviews by casting up or down votes. The review readers' ratings are factored into the algorithm that rates the reviews, with the authors of the highest-rated reviews getting awarded. 

### Moderators

Moderators monitor content of the reviews and can delete any reviews that contain inappropriate content.
Moderators also keep an eye on the number of reviews registered for a service to ensure that they do not exceed the maximum number allowed.
When the maximum number of reviews is reached, moderators can prune old reviews to make room for a new review.

> 

Reviewer 2: The incentives piece for reviewers and moderators seems missing to me. It's clear why service owners and reviewers want to participate in this system, but why do readers and moderators want to spend time or gas here?

Reviewer 2: I guess the usual playbook would be to distribute rewards to these groups as well, e.g.

- Review readers get a proportion of the review reward if they voted for it (you may need to make votes scarce for this to have an effect, or you may not given that people need to take the time and pay gas to place a vote).
- Service providers all pay into a pool that goes to Moderators, on a rolling basis, people can stake moderators to influence what proportion of the reward each moderator gets, up to a limit (similar to how validators are staked on-chain), and moderator decisions are decided by quorum (of stake weight).

These things can be complex to implement though, so I think it would be fine to address the question of incentives and say that you *could* do these things, but they are not implemented as part of this guide.

Author: Added incentives for review readers and moderators as suggested.

## How reviews are rated

The reviews are rated (scored) on-chain using following criteria
- Intrinsic score (IS)
  - Length of content
- Extrinsic score (ES)
  - Number of votes received
- Verification multiplier (VM)
  - Reviews with PoE get a multiplier to improve rating

```
Total Score = (IS + ES) * VM
```

## Smart contracts

There are several modules that create the backend logic for the example. 

### dashboard.move

The `dashboard.move` module defines the `Dashboard` struct that is used to group services.

```move
struct Dashboard has key, store {
  id: UID,

>   set: VecSet<ID>,

Reviewer 2: What goes into this `set`, and can this be potentially unlimited too?

Author: I modified the code to use dynamic_field instead of VecSet.

  service_type: String
}
```

The services are grouped by attributes, which can be cuisine type, geographical location, operating hours, google maps ID, and so on. To keep it basic, the example stores only `service_type` (for example, fast food, Chinese, Italian).

### service.move

This module defines the `Services` struct, which service owners manage.

```move
struct Service has key, store {
  id: UID,
  reward_pool: Balance<SUI>,
  reward: u64,
  reviews: MultiMap<ID>,

>   moderators: VecSet<address>,

Reviewer 2: If you are relying on moderators to identify when the service is spoofing reviews, there's a conflict of interest in the service specifying who its moderators are.

Author: I was thinking that service was managed by well known moderators (with well known sui address), and it was ok for service to publicly acknowledge that its moderator is who. It's kind of how buildings are managed by well known security company such as ADT which typically put huge sticker or signs near the entrance of the building.

  overall_rate: u64,
  name: String
}
```

All the submitted reviews are stored in `reviews` field, which has `MultiMap<ID>` type. The [multimap module](#multimap) defines the type. 

The `reward_pool` and `reward` fields store the available reward information.  

```move
struct AdminCap has key, store {
  id: UID,
  service_id: ID
}
struct Moderator has key {
  id: UID,
  service_id: ID,
}
```

> `SERVICE OWNERS` are given `AdminCap` and `MODERATORS` are given `Moderator` to allow them to perform previleged operations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`SERVICE OWNERS` are given `AdminCap` and `MODERATORS` are given `Moderator` to allow them to perform privileged operations.
```

### multimap.move {#multimap}

`MultiMap` is an implementation of the `multimap` data structure (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multimap), which keeps all the reviews sorted. Using `MultiMap`, all the reviews are ordered by rating, with the highest rated reviews coming first.

```move
struct MultiMap<K: copy> has copy, drop, store {
  contents: vector<Entry<K>>,
}
struct Entry<K: copy> has copy, drop, store {
  key: K,
  priority: u64,
}
```
The `object_id` of a `review` object is used as a `key` and `total_score` is used as `priority` for a new entry.

Note that `vector` is used to store the contents of the `MultiMap`. This is acceptable in our use case because the maximum number of reviews for a service is 1000.

> As reviews are sorted by `total_score` on-chain, it is necessary to keep a manageable number of reviews for a service.

Reviewer 2: I don't believe you need to store all reviews in sorted order on-chain, you just need to store the top `K` reviews that are going to be rewarded, and have a way to move reviews in and out of this list based on the votes they get.

Author: I modified the code so that it only maintains top rated reviews for distributing rewards.

```move
public fun insert<K: copy>(self: &mut MultiMap<K>, key: K, priority: u64) {
  assert!(!contains(self, &key), EKeyAlreadyExists);
  let len = vector::length(&self.contents);
  if (len == 0) {
    vector::push_back(&mut self.contents, Entry { key, priority });
  } else {
    insert_recursive(&mut self.contents, Entry { key, priority }, 0, len - 1);
  }
}

> fun insert_recursive<K: copy>(v: &mut vector<Entry<K>>, e: Entry<K>, left: u64, right: u64) {

Reviewer 2: Best not to implement this recursively -- function calls are expensive in Move and max stack size is limited.  Here is a non-recursive implementation of binary search:

https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/blob/f3a9d828880b80617d517416e52eccdfdd715401/examples/move/big_vector/sources/big_vector.move#L576-L593

Author: Used non-recursive function for binary search as per suggestion.

---

> title: Reviews Rating

Reviewer 2: nit: The title reads a little strangely to me, either "Reviews and Ratings" or "Review Rating" read better.

---

The following documentation goes through an example implementation of a review rating platform for the food service industry on Sui.

> Unlike traditional review rating platforms, that often do not disclose the algorithm used to rate reviews, the on-chain platform uses an algorithm that is published on-chain for everyone to see and verify. All submitted reviews are scored and ordered on-chain, which the low gas cost of computation on Sui makes financially feasible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unlike traditional review rating platforms that often do not disclose the algorithm used to rate reviews, this example uses an algorithm that is published on-chain for everyone to see and verify. The low gas cost of computation on Sui make it financially feasible to submit, score, and order all reviews on-chain.
```

## Personas

There are four actors in the typical workflow of the Reviews Rating example.  

> - Service: Review requestor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Service: Review requester.
```

- Extrinsic score (ES): Number of votes a review receives.
- Verification multiplier (VM): Reviews with PoE receive a multiplier to improve rating.

```
Total Score = (IS + ES) * VM
```

## Smart contracts

There are several modules that create the backend logic for the example.

### dashboard.move

The `dashboard.move` module defines the `Dashboard` struct that groups services.

```move
/// Dashboard is a collection of services
public struct Dashboard has key, store {
    id: UID,
    service_type: String
}
```

The services are grouped by attributes, which can be cuisine type, geographical location, operating hours, Google Maps ID, and so on. To keep it basic, the example stores only `service_type` (for example, fast food, Chinese, Italian).

```move
/// Creates a new dashboard
public fun create_dashboard(
    service_type: String,
    ctx: &mut TxContext,
) {
    let db = Dashboard {
        id: object::new(ctx),
        service_type
    };
    transfer::share_object(db);
}

/// Registers a service to a dashboard
public fun register_service(db: &mut Dashboard, service_id: ID) {
    df::add(&mut db.id, service_id, service_id);
}
```

> A `Dashboard` is a [shared object](../../../concepts/object-ownership/shared.mdx), so any service owner can register their service to a dashboard.

Reviewer 2: @nonvis could you add a description here of why we need to group services into a `Dashboard`?

### service.move

This module defines the `Service` struct that service owners manage.

```move
const MAX_REVIEWERS_TO_REWARD: u64 = 10;

/// Represents a service
public struct Service has key, store {
    id: UID,
    reward_pool: Balance<SUI>,
    reward: u64,
    top_reviews: vector<ID>,
    reviews: ObjectTable<ID, Review>,
    overall_rate: u64,
    name: String
}
```

#### Reward distribution

The same amount is rewarded to top reviewers, and the reward is distributed to 10 participants at most.
The pool of `SUI` tokens to be distributed to reviewers is stored in the `reward_pool` field, and the amount of `SUI` tokens awarded to each participant is configured in `reward` field.

#### Storage for reviews

Because anyone can submit a review for a service, `Service` is defined as a shared object. All the reviews are stored in the `reviews` field, which has [ObjectTable](../../../concepts/sui-move-concepts/collections.mdx#object_table)`<ID, Review>` type. The `reviews` are stored as children of the shared object, but they are still accessible by their `ID`.

> In other words, anyone can go to a transaction explorer and find a review object by its `object_id` but they won't be able to use a review as an input to a transaction by its `object_id`.

Reviewer 2: nit: `object_id` is not an identifier we've introduced in code anywhere, so prefer leaving it unformatted.

```suggestion
In other words, anyone can go to a transaction explorer and find a review object by its object ID but they won't be able to use a review as an input to a transaction by its object ID.
```

  Moderator ->> Service: Remove abused review
```

### Service owners

Service owners are entities like restaurants that list their services on the platform. They want to attract more customers by receiving high-rated reviews for their services.

Service owners allocate a specific amount of SUI as a reward pool. Assets from the pool are used to provide rewards for high-rated reviews. A Proof of Experience (PoE) NFT confirms a reviewer used the service, which the reviewer can burn later to provide a verified review. Service owners provide their customers with unique identifiers, perhaps using QR codes, to identify individual reviewers.

### Reviewers

Reviewers are consumers of services that use the review system. Reviewers provide feedback in the form of comments that detail specific aspects of the service as well as a star rating to inform others. The reviews are rated, with the most effective reviews getting the highest rating. Service owners award the 10 highest rated reviews for their service. How often the rewards are distributed is up to the service owner's discretion; for example, the rewards can be distributed once a week or once a month.

### Review readers

> Review readers access reviews to make informed decisions on selecting services. Readers rate reviews by casting up or down votes. The review readers' ratings are factored into the algorithm that rates the reviews, with the authors of the highest-rated reviews getting rewarded. Although it is not implemented as part of this guide, a proportion of the review rewards may be awarded to review readers who has participated in rating reviews by casting their votes.

Author: Fixed a typo as suggested

    service_type: String,
    ctx: &mut TxContext,
) {
    let db = Dashboard {
        id: object::new(ctx),
        service_type
    };
    transfer::share_object(db);
}

/// Registers a service to a dashboard
public fun register_service(db: &mut Dashboard, service_id: ID) {
    df::add(&mut db.id, service_id, service_id);
}
```

A `Dashboard` is a [shared object](../../../concepts/object-ownership/shared.mdx), so any service owner can register his/her service to a dashboard.
And a [dynamic field](../../../concepts/dynamic-fields.mdx) is used to store the list of services that are registered to a dashboard.
:::info

See [Shared versus Owned Objects](../sui-101/shared-owned.mdx) for more information on the differences between object types.

:::

### review.move

This module defines the `Review` struct.

```move
/// Represents a review of a service
struct Review has key, store {
    id: UID,
    owner: address,
    service_id: ID,
    content: String,
    // intrinsic score
    len: u64,
    // extrinsic score
    votes: u64,
    time_issued: u64,
    // proof of experience
    has_poe: bool,
    total_score: u64,
    overall_rate: u8,
}

/// Updates the total score of a review

> public fun update_total_score(rev: &mut Review) {

Author: Made it a private function as suggested

    rev.total_score = calculate_total_score(rev);
}

/// Calculates the total score of a review
fun calculate_total_score(rev: &Review): u64 {

>     // intrinsic_score = len / 100; max = 150

Author: Removed the comment

    let intrinsic_score: u64 = rev.len;
    intrinsic_score = math::min(intrinsic_score, 150);

>     // extrinsic_score = # of votes; 1 + (10 * per votes)

Author: Removed unnecessary comments

    let extrinsic_score: u64 = 10 * rev.votes;

    // VM = either 1.0 or 2.0 (if user has proof of experience)
    let vm: u64 = 1;
    if (rev.has_poe == true) {
        vm = 2;

>     };

Author: Made updates as suggested

After `total_score` is updated, the [`update_top_reviews`](#casting-votes) function can be called to update the `top_reviews` field of the `Service` object.

### service.move

This module defines the `Service` struct, which service owners manage.

```move
const MAX_REVIEWERS_TO_REWARD: u64 = 10;

/// Represents a service
struct Service has key, store {
    id: UID,
    reward_pool: Balance<SUI>,
    reward: u64,
    top_reviews: vector<ID>,
    reviews: ObjectTable<ID, Review>,
    overall_rate: u64,
    name: String
}
```

#### Reward distribution
The same amount is rewarded to top reviewers, and the reward is distributed to 10 participants at most.
The pool of `SUI` tokens that will be distributed to reviewers is stored in `reward_pool` field, and the amount of `SUI` tokens that will be awarded to each participant is configured in `reward` field.

#### Storage for reviews
Since anyone can submit a review for a service, a `Service` should be defined as a shared object.
All the reviews are stored in `reviews` field, which has [ObjectTable](../../../concepts/sui-move-concepts/collections.mdx#object_table)`<ID, Review>` type.

> Note that `reviews` are stored as children of the shared object, but they are still accessible by their `ID`.

Author: Ok.

:::info

See [Table and Bag](../../../concepts/dynamic-fields/tables-bags.mdx) for more information on the differences between `Table` and `ObjectTable`.

:::

The top rated reviews are stored in `top_reviews` field, which has `vector<ID>` type.
A simple vector can be used to store the top rated reviews because the maximum number of reviews that can be rewarded is 10.
The elements of `top_reviews` are sorted by the `total_score` of the reviews, with the highest rated reviews coming first, and contain
the `ID` of the reviews (whose content and vote count can be looked up from the `reviews`).

#### Casting votes
A vote can be casted on a review by a reader to rate the review as follows:

```move
/// Upvotes a review and reorders top_reviews
public fun upvote(service: &mut Service, review_id: ID) {
    let review = object_table::borrow_mut(&mut service.reviews, review_id);
    review::upvote(review);

>     reorder(service, review_id, review::get_total_score(review));

Author: I've adopted Move 2024.

}

/// Downvotes a review and reorders top_reviews
public fun downvote(service: &mut Service, review_id: ID) {
    let review = object_table::borrow_mut(&mut service.reviews, review_id);
    review::downvote(review);
    reorder(service, review_id, review::get_total_score(review));
}

> /// Reorders top_reviews after a review is updated

Author: I added `prune_top_views` function that prevents `top_reviews` vector from continuously growing.

/// If the review is not in top_reviews, it will be added if it is in the top 10
/// Otherwise, it will be reordered
fun reorder(
    service: &mut Service,
    review_id: ID,
    total_score: u64
) {
    let (contains, idx) = vector::index_of(&service.top_reviews, &review_id);
    if (!contains) {
        update_top_reviews(service, review_id, total_score);
    } else {
        vector::remove(&mut service.top_reviews, idx);
        let idx = find_idx(service, total_score);
        vector::insert(&mut service.top_reviews, review_id, idx);
    }
}

/// Updates top_reviews if necessary
fun update_top_reviews(
    service: &mut Service,
    review_id: ID,
    total_score: u64
) {
    if (should_update_top_reviews(service, total_score)) {
        let idx = find_idx(service, total_score);
        vector::insert(&mut service.top_reviews, review_id, idx);
        prune_top_reviews(service);
    };
}

/// Finds the index of a new review to place within top_reviews

> fun find_idx(service: &Service, total_score: u64): u64 {

Author: Refactored the function to check from the lowest scoring review and work up as suggested.

                    showEvents: true,
                },
            }).then((resp) => {
                setIsLoading(false);
                console.log(resp);
                if (resp.effects?.status.status === "success") {
                    console.log(`${operation} operation successful`);
                    toast.success(`${operation} operation successful`);
                    return
                } else {
                    console.log(`${operation} operation failed`);
                    toast.error(`${operation} operation failed.`);
                    return
                }
            }).catch((err) => {
                setIsLoading(false);
                console.log(`${operation} operation failed`);
                console.log(`${operation} error : `,err);
                toast.error(`Something went wrong, ${operation} operation failed.`);
            });
        }).catch((err) => {
            setIsLoading(false);
            console.log(`signing goes wrong ${operation} error : `,err);
            toast.error(`signing goes wrong, ${operation} operation failed.`);
        });
    }
    return { handleSignAndExecuteTransaction }
}
```

> The hook logic is straightforward. A `TransactionBlock` is the input, sign it with the current connected wallet account, execute the transaction block, return the execution result, and finally display a basic toast message to indicate whether the transaction is successful or not.

Author: I agree that the phrase can be discouraging, and I've removed the phrase.
